High in this video we're going to continue our discussion on the decimals and then we're going to do
is to actually import the decimal module and then from the decimal module I'm also going to specifically
import the decimal class.
So technically I don't have to do that.
Right if I want to refer to the decimal class inside the decimal module I can say decimal dark decimal
Brian and then provide the constructor or whatever we want but I don't want to have to write decimal
dot decimal every time.
So I am going to also do from decimal impled decimal.
That way I don't have to worry about it.
There's other ways you can do that.
But that's the way I just choose to do it.
OK so now we need to talk about the context now the context is simply something that specifies certain
properties that will affect how the decimals work.
And in particular the two that we looked at were the precision and the rounding.
Now on this point I'm inside the module at the module level of the code.
I'm not inside a function or anything else.
So I can retrieve the current default context by simply saying decimal does get complex so this is a
function that is in the decimal module.
And this will tell me what my current context is which is my global context.
In this case writes I've got a precision of 28.
The rounding is half even.
And we can change that.
We can also get the precision specifically by saying get context Darb PR we see.
So it just returns that value 28 and then we can do the same thing with rounding and return with the
rounding error.
And we can see it's just a string rounding is just a string.
Now we can change those two values as well.
We can do it by calling decimal dogs get context dot precision equals maybe 6 get.
And now if I do there's an old duck to get context again then you can see our precision was changed.
We could also change the rounding.
So good context and one thing if you're going to work with the context a lot with this context a lot
then what you might want to do is maybe give it a name a sign of the name once and for all remember.
Get context it returns a context object.
Right.
And the type of that object is a context.
OK so now I have that object I have that on global context or default context.
At this point and now I can just say the underscore CTX instead of doing every time you know decimal
double context I can just do it this way it's a little shorter and for the rounding.
Well you could do this you could say half round.
Sorry round half.
And I can type and maybe you want to change it around half up.
So that's one way of doing it.
But of course you got to make sure that you don't misspell the string here.
So the decimal module also includes some predefined pre-determined constants like this which will essentially
be the same thing as the string but we can do it this way.
So just to show you that it is nothing more than just the string itself.
We can do this and look at the type of that which is just a string and the value of that is just the
string round half up.
So that's how we can do it.
And if we look now at our context so we'll look again at our current context.
We can see that the precision is still 6 and we've changed our rounding now to be round half up.
So I'm going to go back and reset the rounding.
So the CTX start precision set of back to 28 and I'll set the rounding back to round half even
k.
So now if we look again at our decimal that gets context you'll see that we're back to where we stand.
All right so that's for the global context.
That's actually for in this case it's the global context because we're at the module level.
I want to point that out get context returns your current context.
So depending on where you call it you might be getting a different context back.
So let's take a look now at a local context.
Now local context is done by just calling the local context function in the decimal module.
What it does it will create a new context and return that it creates a new context either from a context
that you can specify as the parameter to this call or if you don't specify it it will just take whatever
the current default context is which in this case would be the global context.
But it doesn't return a context.
If we look at the type of local context it says decimal does context manager.
If we look at the type of decimal that gets context
it returns a context.
So local context returns a context manager which means we have to deal with it just a little bit differently.
So we'll use the with statement to work with the context manager and what it means is that once we're
done with this with block that local context that was created will be disposed.
Right.
It will get rid of it.
It will get cleaned up and it won't be around anymore.
So with decimal that local
context I can type a local context I'm not going to specify a context or it's just going to grab the
default context as CTX and let's go ahead and print CTX Well let's print the type of CTX and let's print
CTX and you'll see now that ctx is a context that's what we would want to work with.
And it it has a precision of 28 and a rounding of round half even Which is exactly what we have in our
default context.
So let's go ahead now and change things up a little bit.
Let's go ahead and say CTX that precision equals 6 and CTX start rounding equals.
And right now our current is around half Even so I'm going to change it to be round half up and then
we're going to print CTX again.
So as you can see we now have a precision of six and a rounding of round half up case with change that
and whatever we are when we do operations year we'll do operations using a precision of six and the
rounding type will be around half up.
Now I do want to point out though that if we do look at print decimal double get context now get context
returns the current context.
Well what's our current contracts right now.
It's this local context that we created.
It is not the global context.
Right.
So if we print that up we'll notice that our context that you know that we get from get context is the
local context because we're inside this with Block.
And so our current context is the local context it's the same as CTX right.
We can look at the idea of CTX and see if it's the same as the id of decimal dobbed get context.
Print that out and you'll see that it's true.
All right so be careful with that.
Get contact's doesn't return always the global context that we have at the module level it just returns
the current context.
If we're at the global level it's the global context then usually that's where we use it.
So we usually get the global context back but if you're inside let's say something like this then you'll
get context is going to be different.
Right.
Because you've switched which context you're using right now we're using the local context not the global
context.
OK.
So let's talk about rounding a little bit more.
And letters are used the round half up right now since we're in there.
And let's go ahead and say X equals decimal 1.2 five and we'll say y equals decimal 1.3 5.
OK.
And matter of fact I'm going to define this above because I want that available globally as well at
the module level.
So we have those two values x and y.
And let's go ahead and print round of X to 1 decimal point and let's print round of y to 1 decimal point.
And so we get that 1.2 5 rounded to 1.3 and 1.3 5 rounded to 1.4.
This was a case where we had a tie and we specified that our rounding mechanism should be round half
off.
And that's exactly what it did.
Now if we are no longer inside the with statement right.
Let's say we're out here and we print with print the same thing.
I'm just going to copy paste that.
But now I'm going to print it at the module level.
Well what is out of context at the module level.
Well the context of the module level is to round half even.
And you'll notice that the 1.2 five actually got rounded down to 1.2.
We had a tie so we rounded to the even you know choice that we had between the two.
OK.
So that's how when you walk of local context versus global context that's kind of the difference between
the two.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.